evaluation/README.md, before:

# Database Evaluation with R
## Installation
    sudo apt-get install r-base r-cran-dbi r-cran-rsqlite r-cran-ggplot2

Since the `r-cran-rsqlite` is broken in Debian Jessie, an alternative version can be installed as follows:

    sudo R
    install.packages("RSQLite")

## Usage
`./download.r <file.sqlite>`
:   Compile number or confirmed downloads and scrape download numbers from tracker. Threshold is independend from data collection phase.

`./source.r <file.sqlite>`
:   Plot received peers from DHT network and tracker server, distinguishing unique and duplicate peers. Includes successful evaluated incoming peers.

## Resources
* [ggplot2: Changing the Default Order of Legend Labels and Stacking of Data | Learning R](https://learnr.wordpress.com/2010/03/23/ggplot2-changing-the-default-order-of-legend-labels-and-stacking-of-data/)

## Why not to use R
* Errors without line numbers
* Bad documentation
* Implicit dimension reduction

## Copyright
Copyright © 2015 Stefan Schindler  
Licensed under the GNU General Public License v3

Commit message:

plot peer source summary and per torrent

evaluation/README.md, after:

# Database Evaluation with R
## Installation
    sudo apt-get install r-base r-cran-dbi r-cran-rsqlite r-cran-ggplot2

Since the `r-cran-rsqlite` is broken in Debian Jessie, an alternative version can be installed as follows:

    sudo R
    install.packages("RSQLite")

## Usage
`./download.r <file.sqlite>`
:   Compile number or confirmed downloads and scrape download numbers from tracker. Threshold is independend from data collection phase.

`./source.r <mode> <file.sqlite>`
:   Plot received peers from DHT network and tracker server, distinguishing unique and duplicate peers. Includes successful evaluated incoming peers. If *mode* is "sum", a summary for all torrents will be plotted. If *mode* is "torrent", the source is plottet for every single torrent.

## Resources
* [ggplot2: Changing the Default Order of Legend Labels and Stacking of Data | Learning R](https://learnr.wordpress.com/2010/03/23/ggplot2-changing-the-default-order-of-legend-labels-and-stacking-of-data/)

## Why not to use R
* Errors without line numbers
* Bad documentation
* Implicit dimension reduction

## Copyright
Copyright © 2015 Stefan Schindler  
Licensed under the GNU General Public License v3
